README.md, before:

![jSona screenshot](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3669658/github/jSona/logo.png "jSona logo")

jSona is a configuration file(JSON), [vlcj](https://github.com/caprica/vlcj) and [JavaFx](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javafx/overview/index.html) based music and media player. The aim of jSona is to always keep your playlists in synch with your music folders. For fast fulltext search jSona uses [Apache Lucene](http://lucene.apache.org/core/). The follwing features are fully supported:

  - Supports all common media formats that VLC [supports](https://wiki.videolan.org/VLC_Features_Formats/)
  - Load artist informations and images via [last.fm](http://www.lastfm.de/api) and [MusicBrainz](http://musicbrainz.org/)
  - Include your music folders
  - Create multiple playlists
  - Fulltext search

##Screenhot
I'm proud to present you a screenshot of jSona! =)
![jSona screenshot](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3669658/github/jSona/jsona_ui_2.png "You Got Rick Rolled!")

##Version
Current version is 1.0.0 

##Configuration file / config.json

Here is an example of the default configuration file. You have to setup your **VLC path** correctly. If you use Java 32-bit/64-bit you also have to use VLC-32-bit/64-bit.
```json
{
  "PATH_TO_VLCJ": "D:/Program Files/VideoLAN/VLC",
  "MAX_SEARCH_RESULT_AMOUNT": 512,
  "VOLUME": 100,
  "FOLDERS": [
    "D:/media/musik",
    "C:/share",
    "C:/downloads/musik"
  ],
  "PLAYBACK_MODE": "NORMAL",
  "RECENTLY_ADDED_UNITL_TIME_IN_DAYS": -7,
  "THEME": "grey",
  "KEY_SKIP_TIME": 10,
  "WINDOW_UNDECORATED": true,
  "TITLE": "jSona - open source project by Frank Roth",
  "MIN_HEIGHT": 600,
  "MIN_WIDTH": 720,
  "COLORIZE_ITEMS": true
}
```

And here an explanation of all possible attributes:

###PATH_TO_VLCJ
Path to your VLC root directory where the libvlc or libvlccore library is. (In windows the files are called libvlc.dll and libvlccore.dll).

###MAX_SEARCH_RESULT_AMOUNT
Maximum search results of the lucene engine (smaller is faster)

###VOLUME
Default startup volume. Will be overwritten by jSona (always save the recently changed volume).

###FOLDERS
Your music folders. Care of JSON-Syntax and correct backslashes (/). See example above...

###PLAYBACK_MODE
Playbackmode of jSona. Choose one of them: {NORMAL, SHUFFLE}. Will be overwritten by jSona (always save the recently changed playback mode).

###RECENTLY_ADDED_UNITL_TIME_IN_DAYS
How long do you want to show new songs in the "New" tab. If you choose -7 then new songs will be displayed for one week in the "New" tab. This number should always be negative.

###THEME
Currently there is only one theme available: {"grey"}.

###KEY_SKIP_TIME
If you change the duration slider with the help of the arrow keys(left or right) the slider rewind or skips 10 seconds.

###WINDOW_UNDECORATED
If you set the value on **false** the normal OS look and feel will be used. If you set the value on **true** [in-sideFX Undecorator](https://github.com/in-sideFX/Undecorator) will be used to make the jSona window beautiful.

![jSona screenshot - undecorated: false](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3669658/github/jSona/jsona_undecorated_2.png "undecorated: false")

###TITLE
Window title of jSona. Will only be displayed if the **WINDOW_UNDECORATED** property is set to **false**.

### MIN_HEIGHT
Minimum window height.

### MIN_WIDTH
Minimum window width.

###COLORIZE_ITEMS
If the value is set to **true** the same music items will be displayed with a different smooth background color. If the value is set to **false** then the default JavaFX list background will be used (see screenshot above).
s
![jSona screenshot](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3669658/github/jSona/jsona_colorized_items.png "You Got Rick Rolled!")

##Download
* [Version 1.0.0](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3669658/github/jSona/binary/jSona-1.0.0.zip)
* [Current version](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3669658/github/jSona/binary/jSona-1.0.0.zip)

##Installation and Start
Download the current zip file and extract it. Then put in your correct VLC path into the config.json file and start jSona with the following command.
```
java -jar jSona-1.0.0.jar
```
jSona uses JavaFX so a current Java virtual machine with JavaFX support should be installed.

##Help / FAQ
Here is a screenshot of jSona that explains the easy to use user interface.
![jSona explaining the UI](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3669658/github/jSona/jsona_explaining_the_ui.png)

##Thank you very much!
This project is based on a set of amazing projects. Thank you to all programmers!
* [VLCJ](https://github.com/caprica/vlcj)
* [Undecorator](https://github.com/in-sideFX/Undecorator)
* [java-string-similarity](https://github.com/rrice/java-string-similarity)
* [last.fm-java](https://code.google.com/p/lastfm-java/)
* [Apache Lucene](http://lucene.apache.org/core/)
* [JavaFX](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javafx/overview/index.html)

##License
MIT - **Free Software, Hell Yeah!**

Commit message:

Description for the SCANNER_AND_TAGGER_LOGGING_GRANULARITY property added.

README.md, after:

![jSona screenshot](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3669658/github/jSona/logo.png "jSona logo")

jSona is a configuration file(JSON), [vlcj](https://github.com/caprica/vlcj) and [JavaFx](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javafx/overview/index.html) based music and media player. The aim of jSona is to always keep your playlists in synch with your music folders. For fast fulltext search jSona uses [Apache Lucene](http://lucene.apache.org/core/). The follwing features are fully supported:

  - Supports all common media formats that VLC [supports](https://wiki.videolan.org/VLC_Features_Formats/)
  - Load artist informations and images via [last.fm](http://www.lastfm.de/api) and [MusicBrainz](http://musicbrainz.org/)
  - Include your music folders
  - Create multiple playlists
  - Fulltext search

##Screenhot
I'm proud to present you a screenshot of jSona! =)
![jSona screenshot](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3669658/github/jSona/jsona_ui_2.png "You Got Rick Rolled!")

##Version
Current version is 1.0.0 

##Configuration file / config.json

Here is an example of the default configuration file. You have to setup your **VLC path** correctly. If you use Java 32-bit/64-bit you also have to use VLC-32-bit/64-bit.
```json
{
  "PATH_TO_VLCJ": "D:/Program Files/VideoLAN/VLC",
  "MAX_SEARCH_RESULT_AMOUNT": 512,
  "VOLUME": 100,
  "FOLDERS": [
    "D:/media/musik",
    "C:/share",
    "C:/downloads/musik"
  ],
  "PLAYBACK_MODE": "NORMAL",
  "RECENTLY_ADDED_UNITL_TIME_IN_DAYS": -7,
  "THEME": "grey",
  "KEY_SKIP_TIME": 10,
  "WINDOW_UNDECORATED": true,
  "TITLE": "jSona - open source project by Frank Roth",
  "MIN_HEIGHT": 600,
  "MIN_WIDTH": 720,
  "COLORIZE_ITEMS": true
}
```

And here an explanation of all possible attributes:

###PATH_TO_VLCJ
Path to your VLC root directory where the libvlc or libvlccore library is. (In windows the files are called libvlc.dll and libvlccore.dll).

###MAX_SEARCH_RESULT_AMOUNT
Maximum search results of the lucene engine (smaller is faster)

###VOLUME
Default startup volume. Will be overwritten by jSona (always save the recently changed volume).

###FOLDERS
Your music folders. Care of JSON-Syntax and correct backslashes (/). See example above...

###PLAYBACK_MODE
Playbackmode of jSona. Choose one of them: {NORMAL, SHUFFLE}. Will be overwritten by jSona (always save the recently changed playback mode).

###RECENTLY_ADDED_UNITL_TIME_IN_DAYS
How long do you want to show new songs in the "New" tab. If you choose -7 then new songs will be displayed for one week in the "New" tab. This number should always be negative.

###THEME
Currently there is only one theme available: {"grey"}.

###KEY_SKIP_TIME
If you change the duration slider with the help of the arrow keys(left or right) the slider rewind or skips 10 seconds.

###WINDOW_UNDECORATED
If you set the value on **false** the normal OS look and feel will be used. If you set the value on **true** [in-sideFX Undecorator](https://github.com/in-sideFX/Undecorator) will be used to make the jSona window beautiful.

![jSona screenshot - undecorated: false](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3669658/github/jSona/jsona_undecorated_2.png "undecorated: false")

###TITLE
Window title of jSona. Will only be displayed if the **WINDOW_UNDECORATED** property is set to **false**.

### MIN_HEIGHT
Minimum window height.

### MIN_WIDTH
Minimum window width.

###COLORIZE_ITEMS
If the value is set to **true** the same music items will be displayed with a different smooth background color. If the value is set to **false** then the default JavaFX list background will be used (see screenshot above).
s
![jSona screenshot](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3669658/github/jSona/jsona_colorized_items.png "You Got Rick Rolled!")

###SCANNER_AND_TAGGER_LOGGING_GRANULARITY
Logging every file in the scanner and tagging process can be very time expensive. Because of that you can define the granularity of the scanner and tagging logging. If the value is set to 1 every file is logged (time expensive). If the value is set to 512 only every 512th and the last file will be logged.      

##Download
* [Version 1.0.0](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3669658/github/jSona/binary/jSona-1.0.0.zip)
* [Current version](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3669658/github/jSona/binary/jSona-1.0.0.zip)

##Installation and Start
Download the current zip file and extract it. Then put in your correct VLC path into the config.json file and start jSona with the following command.
```
java -jar jSona-1.0.0.jar
```
jSona uses JavaFX so a current Java virtual machine with JavaFX support should be installed.

##Help / FAQ
Here is a screenshot of jSona that explains the easy to use user interface.
![jSona explaining the UI](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/3669658/github/jSona/jsona_explaining_the_ui.png)

##Thank you very much!
This project is based on a set of amazing projects. Thank you to all programmers!
* [VLCJ](https://github.com/caprica/vlcj)
* [Undecorator](https://github.com/in-sideFX/Undecorator)
* [java-string-similarity](https://github.com/rrice/java-string-similarity)
* [last.fm-java](https://code.google.com/p/lastfm-java/)
* [Apache Lucene](http://lucene.apache.org/core/)
* [JavaFX](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javafx/overview/index.html)

##License
MIT - **Free Software, Hell Yeah!**
